Some of the standing operating procedures that I would need to address is the fact that I'm unable to manage and keep up with the tasks that I set up for myself daily to follow-up. I do not believe the other financial consultants use the tasks, which they should on Salesforce. But for me, the task is important. I see that they're not doing it because I can see that they may add a task, but they don't go back to those tasks and clear them out, and they're still in the accounts, the contact profiles, uh, many months and years later, which means that they're not managing their follow ups. I'm also seeing this lack of functionality from my financial consultants where they'll communicate with somebody and never follow-up with them. They'll do an onboarding procedure or onboarding call after a strategy call with a prospect, and they never follow-up. I just noticed this on a case with Audrey Salazar where we met the attorney last year at a conference in June. She finally had the strategy call and the onboarding call in January, sent him the information, and never followed up with him to try to get the business. Uh, we noticed this when Brian met that lawyer in June of two thousand twenty six at the same conference, came back to me, asked me to do a call with the gentleman, and I recalled the actual gentleman himself, the attorney. We looked at his files, saw the notes, and he had never been contacted by her, and now he's ready to go. So she lost the opportunity. Somebody else got the opportunity, and the problem is is that this could have been, uh, fallen through the cracks, uh, which is a problem that we wanna solve for the the the financial consultants. The automation behind making sure that they're following up were something behind the scenes is following up if we have not received business after an onboarding or strategy call is gonna be a critical element. So it takes out the human error.

Another standard operating procedure that we need to improve upon and to document what we're currently doing and look to advice on how to improve this is the pre, during, and even post, mostly pre and post conferences. Uh, we're spending a lot of money at conferences. And in order to track the ROI, um, we don't have any goals set, uh, post conference with our sales reps. Um, but my concern is the the overall process involved, and the flow is this. We get a pre conference, uh, list on Excel from the conference that we're going to. It usually does not include email addresses. So this per... this creates a little bit of a problem. We get the, uh, Excel spreadsheet, and we have to import it into Salesforce to get an embedded, uh, contact code, which, unfortunately, CAS, who we use right now as our Salesforce consultant, takes days to get this process done. But it is a manual, laborious process where he's gotta import and dedup and make sure he's not putting, um, uh, accounts in twice that are already in there. And if Salesforce does not identify, um, a duplicate based upon the criteria that indicates a duplicate, it's very easy for CAS to put in a duplicate contact, which creates problems for everybody. That way, we... because we're gonna have, um, two different contacts with two different histories, he also signs to that particular conference that name. So if that particular contact had gone to three prior conferences that we had been to, they would actually show up so we can see and track all the conferences they go to and possibly also an ROI from that particular contact from meeting them at those conferences, but not necessarily justify which conference justified getting the business. Once he gets all that information in and he manually has to get that done, obviously, those that are already in our CRM that he imports will already have those emails However, those that we do not have the email for is the other problem, and we need to get those emails. So what we've been doing is getting emails from an outside source that we then have to forward a list to her of the missing email addresses, which takes days again to get that information, and they're not always accurate. After that, Kaz then will import those remaining emails, and that can trigger not only automation emails coming from the company because they're not in our system, um, but we can start pre mark but we don't have usually the time to actually premarket, um, due to the time frame in which getting this all done. We do have templates created in Salesforce that we have to manually send out to all those attendees that are coming to the conference, which would be nice to automate this where we have templates that can go out for this conference to those people in our system without me having to do it. I'm not sure if there's a way to do it, but it's all coming through Salesforce. After the conference, we do get a post conference list for those that have registered late that we didn't have. We will import those as well. And if we need to, we'll have to get those email addresses from the outside source, which is another time source. And then we have to follow-up. In the past, I have also assigned, uh, to different financial consultants the attendees. There's always one or two people that attend the conference. They have the first opportunities to call on the people that they've met at the conference and write notes and follow-up with them, but there's usually hundreds of more names that we need to get to. If it's a smaller conference, I'll let the individual that is attending the conference to follow-up exclusively. However, I'm finding that the follow-up process has not been very good or consistent, or are they doing it in a manner that is what I consider Not a hunter mentality, or business development mentality, they'll just send out a bogey mail and expect somebody to respond. They're not making phone calls. They're not following up on the emails, and that's a problem. Uh, they're no showing any signs of urgency in doing so. Um, I'm wondering if we can do any automation there. I also now started having Julius on the back end following up post conference on emails that he has as a template and a cadence set up in Salesforce. Again, this is all manual. And if we can remove this financial consultants altogether, that would be helpful. Um, we obviously need to follow-up just with the lawyers that we have email addresses with. If we do not, the financial plan... financial consultants have been asked to call the office if the phone number is there and create an opportunity for themselves and speak to the office and get the email addresses and add them into the system, which they don't do. Julius, unfortunately, is only sending out emails. He does not jump on a phone, so he is limited. But he may be able to at least do something that the others are not doing, which is actually taking the time to make the attempt to follow-up. Now what I have found is I do not have the confidence in all of my financial consultants to assign them an contacts to follow-up with. Specifically, Victoria Canelli, I've noticed, doesn't do a good job even... so, uh, Audrey, uh, Salazar has not done a great job other than the people that she meets at the conference. She's not spending the time necessary. Brian Gillard is a new employee to the company doing financial consulting, and he is limited, um, in knowledge, but I don't think he has been doing great follow-up as well with the opportunities. And the only conference he has gone to specifically had a lot of contacts, period. We hate to have a better way of assigning the contacts to our financial consultants, whether either by territory or some other method. It is my opinion that we are losing tremendous opportunities on the hundreds of names that we do not meet at the conference, that we do have email addresses. And if we don't have email addresses, we at minimum have a phone number that they could be called and somebody can be hunting to get an opportunity and create an opportunity. Um, I have not seen Audrey or Victoria in the three and a half years they've worked with us be successful on the follow-up post conference and ever getting an opportunity successfully converted into business, which is a huge issue from my perspective on talent and urgency and effort. When your company is spending thousands of dollars to go to a conference and giving you the opportunity to be successful, you should, at minimum, be making those opportunities count. And, unfortunately, they have more of a marketing mentality than a sales, uh, or a business development hunter mentality that is necessary for this particular role. So if we can take out the element of them doing the work because they're not successful, obviously, we can remove them altogether. But automation would be very helpful pre and post conference with email marketing, whether it be just simply an email generic sending something to create interest or even our templates that we've created that are more, you know, uh, salesy, but that can also be effective too. We'll be very helpful. I may wanna create a funnel post conference as well, which we've never done. That would be really exciting where we can take our templates and just email those that came to the conference and start sending drip emails just to them targeted with our marketing campaign with regards to that conference, us being there and creating interest. Can we do that? That would be fantastic to automate that process and where they're getting a series or a journey of emails that they can click on as well. I believe a a CMO would Help to design these and implement them as well into a greater campaign method. These are things that I see as workflows and standard operating procedures that we're doing right now that need to be fixed and improved upon bringing in more consistent workflows, more direction for employees, and making sure that the company is getting an ROI on their investment, and everybody is being touched in one capacity or another, as well as is there ways to improve getting the email addresses or importing the information to Salesforce, which seems like it may just only be manual. And do we take out the element of Julius altogether that's manual? and have this all automated going forward and remove the cost of an employee doing this for us.